ZIP 246: Add motivation for sighash algorithm versioning. (#1037)
zcash/zips: zips/zip-0246.rst

Abstract
========

> This ZIP defines the digest algorithms associated with the v6 transaction

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This ZIP defines the sighash algorithms associated with the v6 transaction
```

format.

This proposal also defines the new concept of "sighash algorithm versioning":

> where previously each transaction version had a single associated digest
> algorithm, going forward it will be possible for signers to use any digest

Reviewer: ```suggestion
where previously each transaction version had a single associated sighash
algorithm, going forward it will be possible for signers to use any sighash
```

algorithm within the closed set specified for a given transaction version (and
made available in consensus via network upgrades).

==========
Motivation
==========

The motivation for sighash algorithm versioning is that we want to be able to
specify the V6 transaction format and signatures without knowing what the
signatures for atomic swaps in action bundles will need to commit to. This
allows for future signature hash algorithms to be specified for V6 transactions
that support signing parts of a transaction while leaving the remainder of the

> transaction malleable, or that commit to additional state that nodes may start
> tracking in a future upgrade that is not part of an individual transaction

Reviewer: ```suggestion
transaction malleable, or that commit to additional state that nodes may start
tracking in a future upgrade and that is not part of an individual transaction
```
"that is not part of ..." qualifies the additional state.

being signed.

Being able to remove support for sighash algorithm versions makes it possible

> to respond effectively in the case that a bug is found in a previously-deployed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to respond effectively in the case that a bug is found in a previously deployed
```
"previously deployed" is an adjective modified by an adverb, not a compound adjective.

sighash algorithm.

============
Requirements
============

> - Continue to support existing functionality of the protocol (multisig, signing
>   modes for transparent inputs).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Continue to support existing functionality of the protocol (e.g. multisig and
  signing modes for transparent inputs).
```

- It should be possible to update this ZIP with additional sighash algorithm
  versions that might have divergent behavior with respect to previous
  versions, after previous versions have been deployed in network upgrades.

> - It should be possible to remove support for sighash algorithm versions in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It should be possible to disable support for sighash algorithm versions in
```
Subtly different because the support can't be immediately removed from implementations; it is still needed to check consensus before the upgrade.

Rough summary:

- Sighash versions are numbered starting from 0 for each tx version.

> - v0 is by convention the "commit to everything" sighash algorithm. Other

Reviewer: "commit to all effecting data"

  versions can commit to whatever makes sense for desired functionality within
  that tx version.

> - Have a single byte encoded alongside the signature (not appended the way
>   transparent does) that permits the signer to specify which sighash algorithm

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Have a single byte encoded alongside the signature (not appended in the manner
  of transparent sighash types) that permits the signer to specify which sighash algorithm
```

  version they are using.
- Consensus rules choose the digest algorithm for each signer based on that
  byte.

----------
v0 Digests
----------

> The v0 digests are based on the v5 transaction digest algorithm defined in ZIP
> 244 [#zip-0244]_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The v0 digests are based on the v5 transaction digest algorithm defined in
ZIP 244 [#zip-0244]_.
```
